---
title: "02: Tech Stack + RUP Roles"
last_modified_at: 2021-10-16T00:00:00-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - database
  - app
  - rfid
  - ionic
  - ios
  - android
---

Hi there!

In this week's blog post we will talk about the technology stack we decided to use and which RUP roles we assigned to whom.

# Tech Stack

As already mentioned in our first blog post, we decided to use Ionic as the main framework for our application. Because we want the app to have a neat user interface and Ionic offers three different frontend frameworks, the next step was to choose one of them: Angular, React or Vue. Neither of us had ever worked with any of them before, so at the beginning we had no idea which would be best for us. But after doing some research we decided to go with Angular. Angular is TypeScript based, it has a pretty good performance and a huge community all around the globe, which will be profitable when we need help.
Thus, the tech stack of our application consists of TypeScript for the logic, HTML for the UI structure and Sass for the UI design.

For being able to store our user's data we also need a database system which will run on a server. Lukas has worked with Microsoft's SQL Server before, so we decided to use it for this project.

Last but not least we would like the user authentication to happen via the student's email addresses. Because none of us has ever done something like this before and we think that it is a more complex topic, we decided to work on this aspect later.

All in all our technology stack looks/will look like this:
[Bild]

# RUP Roles

Tim - Configuration Manager

Ralph - Integrator

Lukas - Deployment

Noah - Software Architect


We look forward to receiving your feedback!