---
title: "15: Another Retrospective"
last_modified_at: 2022-05-06T10:20:02-05:00
author: Tim Czerkas
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Retrospective
  - improvement
---

Hey Everyone,

this week we did our second retrospective and therefore I will sum up our results compared to the first [retro](https://dhbw-experts.github.io/blog/08/). Let's start with positive stuff that we improved on. In the last retro we mentioned our success with a working database and a clickable mock-up for our app.
We got a lot of work done regarding those topics and not only do we have a working app that is implemented and not just a mock-up, we also got an API to use the database more efficiently. To sum it up, we developed very well looking at our succeeded goals.

The next question was if we had any topics that were difficult for us. In the first retro we noticed 3 things, two of them could get improved. That includes the struggle with a new programming language. By now, everyone is able to work and implement code for our app. The second struggle we got rid off is an overly ambitious scope for the semester. We should be able to get this semesters scope done.
However, there is also one point we still like to improve more on, which is the role distribution within our team. It got better, but there is still room for improvement.

We also mentioned this when we talked about what we would change, if we'd have to start a new project. Having trouble with new programming languages and technologies should also be covered more properly when starting a project.
Furthermore we would like to use Youtrack more intensively right from the beginning, this helps a lot to understand the task distribution in our team.

To come to an End, we discussed how this has an impact on our working place in an professional environment. We came to the conclusion that agile software developement can be very useful, but only if it is used in the right way. Another point was the realisation that you can be much more productive if the team works together and not everyone for themselves.
 
